# Weakly Supervised Spatial Deep Learning

Originally written for KDD 2021 Submission.

This repository has been configured for installation and usage to verify the efficacy of the Geometric Annotation Errors system. 

## About
To add...

---

### Requirements
- **Python** >=3.7
- **tensorflow** >=2.2.0,<2.3.0
- **tensorboard** >=2.2.2
- **rasterio** >=1.1.5
- **geopandas** ==0.8.1
- **scikit-learn** ==0.23.2
- **matplotlib** >= 3.2.2
See `requirements.txt` for a full list.

## Using the Pipeline

#### 1. Geting the Source Data 
A few small image and shape files are required to run the code locally, which have been made available through ?dropbox? here: [LINK TDB]. The archive contains a small sample of labeled satellite imagery to train the UNet model during the EM algorithm.

Simply download the .zip and extract the contents to the root folder for this repository. After running the setup script, make sure `INPUT_DATA_DIR` in `config.py` is set to the extracted directory.   

Required files:
- `train_raster.tif`: Training imagery
- `train_raster.tif`: Testing imagery
- `imperfect_labels.shp`: Imperfect streamline labels 
- `refined_labels.shp`: Hand-refined ground truth streamline labels
#### 2. Set up environment
After cloning or downloading this repository, ensure you've properly set up a Python environment to execute the pipeline in. A list of the required packages is provided above. 

Next, run the `setup.py` file in the root directory. This will create `config.py` and some filepaths for hosting input data and storing results. 

Ensure the constant `INPUT_DATA_DIR` in the newly generated `config.py` file is set to the folder containing the extracted data from ?dropbox?.

#### 3.  Parsing the Training Data
To convert the raw imagery and labels into training-ready data, run `preprocess.py`. The tensors produced by this script will be saved in `TENSOR_DIR` specified in `config.py`. 

### 4. Run the Pipeline
Once the tensors have been generated, open `GeoErrors-EM.ipynb` with an IPython notebook editor to run the pipeline. Outputs for the test will be printed in the notebook and saved in an indexed sub-folder under the `RESULTS_DIR` path specified in `config.py`. The details of this folder's contents are detailed below.


### EM Output
The OUTPUT_LEVEL hyperparameter controls contents of the output folder like: results documentation, model files, and updated annotation shapefiles in the EM notebook. Increased output detail does require a large amount of space (7 GB per step depending on level), but will give the clearest indication on how the system works. Each step's info will be saved in a sub-folder indexed as such: `step_00/`.

Each increased level contains all previous outputs.
#### Level 0:
- `em_info.md`: Contains a full summary of the EM run, including two tables with model performance and annotation IoU.
- `step_results.png`: A plot with each step's model scores and annotation IoU with the hand-refined ground truth. 

#### Level 1:
For each EM step the following will be saved in a sub-folder:
- `annotation.shp`: Shapefile containing the inferred annotation from the UNet's predicted class map.
- `training_history.png`: A plot containing the training/validation F1 and learning rate over each training epoch.
- `weights.h5`: Model weights generated by the ModelCheckpoint tool from Keras.

#### Level 2:
For each EM step the following will be saved in a sub-folder:
- `pmap.tif`: Predicted class map output from the UNet over the training area. This helps visualize how the new annotations are inferred. 
- `rasterized_annotation.tif`: Inferred Annotation after it has been buffered and rasterized over the training area. 
- `model_report.md`: In text form, stores the model's evaluation on training, testing, and validation sets.
- `tensorboard/`: Tensorboard data for model training review.

#### Level 3: 
For each EM step the following will be saved in a sub-folder:
- `Y_train.npy`: Training labels for this step
- `Y_val.npy`: Validation labels for this step 

---

## Resources:
- [Github](https://github.com/spatialdatasciencegroup/WeaklySupervisedSpatialDeepLearning)
- [Paper Link]() - To add
- [Jiang Lab](https://www.jiangteam.org/)
- [Data]() - To add